feat(guidelines): add new guideline for money fields (#89)
otto-de/api-guidelines: api-guidelines/global/json/canonical-data-types/rules/should-use-common-otto-decimal-format.md

---
id: R100079
---

# SHOULD use common `otto:decimal` format

When a business case processing JSON properties calls for a higher precision as available by using floats by default, using type `number` with format `otto:decimal` allows for custom conversion logic based on application programming language and not relying on [OpenAPI `number` data type][openapi-data-types] being automatically converted to `float` or `double`.

> Examples for correct representations as monetary amounts (in EUR):

Reviewer: As this section is VERY close to Zalando...does their license this or do we need to come up with own examples and constraints? 

Furthermore, I feel a bit lost and would love an introductory sentence combining the decimal format and the examples.

`42.20` or `42.2` = 42 Euros, 20 Cent

`0.23` = 23 Cent

`42.0` or `42` = 42 Euros

`1024.42` = 1024 Euros, 42 Cent

`1024.4225` = 1024 Euros, 42.25 Cent

> Make sure that you don’t convert a field of type `number` using the `otto:decimal` format to `float` / `double` types when implementing this interface in a specific language or when doing calculations. Otherwise, you might lose precision. Instead, use exact formats like Java’s `BigDecimal`. See [Stack Overflow][stack-overflow] for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you don’t convert a field of type `number` combined with the format `otto:decimal` to type `float` or `double` when implementing this interface in a specific language or when doing calculations.
Otherwise, you might lose precision.
Instead, use exact formats like Java’s `BigDecimal`.
See [Stack Overflow][stack-overflow] for more information.
```

---
id: R100079
---

# SHOULD use common `otto:decimal` format

When a business case processing JSON properties calls for a higher precision than available by using floats by default, using type `number` with format `otto:decimal` allows for custom conversion logic.
This logic is based on application programming language and does not rely on [OpenAPI `number` data type][openapi-data-types] being automatically converted to `float` or `double`.

Examples for correct representations as monetary amounts (in EUR):

`42.20` or `42.2` = 42 Euros, 20 Cent

`0.23` = 23 Cent

`42.0` or `42` = 42 Euros

`1024.42` = 1024 Euros, 42 Cent

> `1024.4225` = 1024 Euros, 42.25 Cent

Reviewer 2: @jensfischer1515 ?

> `1024.4225` = 1024 Euros, 42.25 Cent

Reviewer 3: good point, I will extend the examples to show negative values

> `0.01` = 0 Euros and 1 Cent
> 
> `23.0` or `23` = 23 Euros and 0 Cent
> 
> `45.60` or `45.6` = 45 Euros and 60 Cent
> 
> `-789.01` = negative 789 Euros and 1 Cent
> 
> `1234.5678` = 1234 Euros and 56.78 Cent

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`0.01` = 0 euros and 1 cent

`23.0` or `23` = 23 euros and 0 cent

`45.60` or `45.6` = 45 euros and 60 cent

`-789.01` = negative 789 euros and 1 cent

`1,234.5678` = 1,234 euros and 56.78 cent
```
Theoretically, it would be consistent to place a comma after each 1000 unit, i.e., 1,000 and 10,000 and 100,000 and so on when we choose the period to separate euros from cents. Especially in the last example, I'm wondering if we really deal with decimals in cents (56.78?). Also, how would one know that it's 56.78 and not, for example 5.678 cents. That's pretty confusing, in my opinion. Is there a guideline on that or are we establishing this with this guideline?

Reviewer 3: Since the type is still `number`, we must adhere to the specification of that type. It only allows for numerical digits and a decimal point, there is no option for a thousands separator.

Also if you think about currencies like Bitcoins, it becomes very relevant to allow for more than just two decimal digits:

```json
{
  "amount": 0.001,
  "currency": "BTC"
}

Reviewer 3: And we did not come up with 0.1234 € being 12 cent and 34 hundredth of a single cent, that is basic calculation for currencies
